Add notices section (#2841)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/run-arbitrum-node/arbos-releases/arbos50.mdx

---
title: 'ArbOS 50 Dia'
sidebar_label: 'ArbOS 50 Dia'
sidebar_position: 2
description: 'Learn about ArbOS 50 Dia release, including Fusaka upgrade support, new EIPs, bug fixes, and upgrade requirements for Arbitrum chain owners and node operators.'
user_story: As an Arbitrum chain owner or node operator, I want to know what ArbOS 50 implements.
author: zk-Lumi
sme: zk-Lumi
content_type: release note
---

import { VanillaAdmonition } from '@site/src/components/VanillaAdmonition';

<VanillaAdmonition type="note">

<a data-quicklook-from="arbos">ArbOS</a> 50 Dia is still pre-release. This document may change.

</VanillaAdmonition>

This page is intended for all Arbitrum (Orbit) chains and validator node operators. This page summarizes the changes brought by ArbOS 50 Dia, and what you should do to ensure a seamless upgrade.

<VanillaAdmonition type="warning" title="Action Required">

Before Ethereum <a data-quicklook-from="parent-chain">Parent chain</a> Sepolia and mainnet upgrade to Fusaka: ensure that your Nitro node version is upgraded and consensus layer client is configured as per the [Fusaka upgrade notice](../../notices/fusaka-upgrade-notice.mdx).

</VanillaAdmonition>

> The minimum Nitro version that supports ArbOS 50 "Dia" is [Nitro v3.9.0](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/releases/tag/v3.9.0), which is available on Docker Hub with the image tag `Need to update - offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.8.0-rc.5-6c74ee2-validator`. This release of Nitro is a mandatory upgrade for <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-one">Arbitrum One</a> and <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nova">Nova</a> validators. For Arbitrum One and Nova, the ArbOS 50 "Dia" upgrade will require a governance vote to activate.

Reviewer: TODO comment here so we don't forget to update the docker image tag for 3.9.0.

Would also change `validators` to `node operators`  and also note that the upgrade is only required if the DAO vote passes. I would make sure we reference that nuance.
```suggestion
The minimum Nitro version that supports ArbOS 50 "Dia" is [Nitro v3.9.0](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/releases/tag/v3.9.0), which is available on Docker Hub with the image tag `Need to update - offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.8.0-rc.5-6c74ee2-validator`. This release of Nitro is a mandatory upgrade for <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-one">Arbitrum One</a> and <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nova">Nova</a> node operators if adopted. For Arbitrum One and Nova, the ArbOS 50 "Dia" upgrade will require a governance vote to activate.
```

As a refresher, ArbOS upgrades get treated as Arbitrum's equivalent of a hard fork. To learn more, refer to the [Arbitrum ArbOS upgrades forum post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbitrum-arbos-upgrades/19695). Note that ArbOS 50 Dia is an upgrade that builds upon [ArbOS 40 Callisto](./arbos40.mdx).

### Requirements

- Having read and understood the [ArbOS Software Releases Overview page](./01-overview.mdx).

> - Running [Nitro v3.9.0](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/releases/tag/v3.9.0) or higher, which is available on Docker Hub with the image tag `Need to update - offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.8.0-rc.5-6c74ee2-validator`.

Reviewer: TODO comment to update docker image tag

| [EIP-2537: Precompile for BLS12-381 curve operations](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2537)    | As [disclosed previously](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/disclosure-of-support-for-eip-2537-on-arbitrum-one-and-nova/29720), the precompiled contracts for performing various operations over the BLS12-381 elliptic curve, including <a data-quicklook-from="bls-signature">BLS Signature</a> verification, were added but not properly enabled in [ArbOS 40 Callisto](./arbos40.mdx) as originally expected. ArbOS 50 Dia will now enable `EIP-2537`.                                                                                                                                                                                    |

> #### ArbOS block limit change: Effective block gas limit

Author: I removed every table, partly because of your comment, partly because the tables made the content somewhat harder to read.

Since ArbOS 50 introduces a `MaxTxGasLimit`, the <a data-quicklook-from="state-transition-function">State Transition Function</a> (STF) will be relaxed in ArbOS 50 to allow the final transaction in a block to use up to the `MaxTxGasLimit` even if it would cause the block to exceed `MaxBlockGasLimit`. This means that the "Effective Block Gas Limit" is really `MaxBlockGasLimit + MaxTxGasLimit`. In previous versions of ArbOS, the <a data-quicklook-from="sequencer">Sequencer</a> would skip transactions if the transaction request's `GasLimit` minus the parent chain data posting gas exceeded the gas remaining in the block.

The new algorithm is more efficient because the sequencer doesn't need to keep searching through the queue of transactions to find one that fits in the remaining block gas, and can continue to add transactions until the unused block gas is 0.

This change doesn't affect the `GasTarget`, and therefore doesn't affect how much overall gas per second the chain will use - only how transactions using that gas could be divided between different blocks.

> #### A few bug fixes

Reviewer: These bug fixes should be in the table too
